<!--
Copyright IBM Corp. and others 2024

This program and the accompanying materials are made available under
the terms of the Eclipse Public License 2.0 which accompanies this
distribution and is available at https://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0/
or the Apache License, Version 2.0 which accompanies this distribution
and is available at https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.

This Source Code may also be made available under the following Secondary
Licenses when the conditions for such availability set forth in the
Eclipse Public License, v. 2.0 are satisfied: GNU General Public License,
version 2 with the GNU Classpath Exception [1] and GNU General Public
License, version 2 with the OpenJDK Assembly Exception [2].

[1] https://www.gnu.org/software/classpath/license.html
[2] https://openjdk.org/legal/assembly-exception.html

SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0 OR Apache-2.0 OR GPL-2.0-only WITH Classpath-exception-2.0 OR GPL-2.0-only WITH OpenJDK-assembly-exception-1.0
-->

# Eclipse OMR Generative Artificial Intelligence Usage Guidelines

The Eclipse OMR project acknowledges that some contributions may be authored in
whole or in part from generative artificial intelligence (GenAI) coding
assistants. Such contributions are permitted per the
[Eclipse Foundation Generative AI Usage Guidelines](https://www.eclipse.org/projects/guidelines/genai/)
which describes contributor and committer responsibilities, copyright and
licensing considerations, and attribution requirements for GenAI assisted
contributions.

All contributors are encouraged to read and understand the advice and
guidelines therein before submitting a contribution to Eclipse OMR even
partially generated by an AI coding assistant.

The Eclipse OMR project is subject to those policies and provides additional
guidelines described below for contributors and committers governing
GenAI-assisted contributions.

## Attribution

Contributions that include GenAI-assisted content must disclose that authorship
in each file where GenAI content is present. Contributors must include a
statement like the following just below the copyright header at the beginning
of the file that acknowledges their AI assistant (assuming such a statement
does not already exist).

```
// Some sections generated by <YOUR AI ASSISTANT>
```

In addition, individual commits that include GenAI authored content must
attribute that at the end of the commit message (before any human authorship
signatures).

```
Co-authored by <YOUR AI ASSISTANT>
```

## Tagging

Some contributors’ employers may require their AI-generated code and
documentation contributions to be annotated with inline tags providing
additional metadata about the generated content for legal and license
attribution reasons. Eclipse OMR will accept contributions that include such
metadata with some guidance below for contributors and committers.

### Tag Usage

Inline tagging of code or documentation generated by coding assistants is not
mandatory.

If tags are used, they must clearly demarcate the boundaries of GenAI-assisted
content (e.g., via paired "begin" and "end" code comments). These boundaries
may span consecutive lines, functions, paragraphs, or entire files. The term
"assisted" is an important qualifier to describe the enclosed content because
it may contain a blend of AI-generated content and human contributions. The
"assisted" distinction is necessary because it may not be possible to clearly
identify just the AI-generated content in the contribution, and it allows for
human changes to the demarcated contribution over time while preserving the
meaning of the tags.

### Tag Format

At this time, Eclipse OMR does not specify the format of the tags, except that
they must not contain any corporate-specific information or other identifiers
that have no meaning beyond the original contributor (e.g., internal issue
numbers or URLs). Information about the model used to generate the code or
documentation is permitted, however.

Tags must be concise and as minimally-invasive as possible. Tags that are
excessively verbose or impact the readability of the code or documentation may
be rejected by committers at their discretion.

For consistency, tags produced for the same coding assistant must use the same
format regardless of the contributor or pull request.

### Tag Maintenance

If the contents of a tagged region are modified by a human then any enclosing
tags should remain in place.

If code or documentation within a tagged region is copied in whole or in part
elsewhere in the project, the original surrounding tags should accompany the
copy to its destination. If such code or documentation is copied to a file
that does not already have the Eclipse Foundation GenAI attribution after the
copyright header, such attribution must be added.

Eclipse OMR implements a good-faith policy for contributors and committers to
maintain GenAI tags in the code and documentation for as long as possible.
Existing tags and their boundaries will be maintained on a best-effort basis,
and they should not be removed simply for the sake of removing them.

However, there are legitimate situations where GenAI tagging may be considered
for removal, including if the tags:

* interfere with the readability or understandability of the code or
  documentation,
* become difficult or unwieldly to maintain (e.g., through code refactoring or
  code sharing),
* become obsolete (e.g., information within a tagged section is removed
  entirely),
* become redundant (e.g., an inner set of tags is completely consumed by an
  outer set)

This list is not exhaustive, and the disposition of GenAI tags in a pull
request will ultimately be at the discretion of Eclipse OMR committers who will
balance the spirit of these tagging guidelines with the best interests of the
Eclipse OMR project.
